.\" connman.conf(5) manual page
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation
.\"
.TH "connman.conf" "5" "21 August 2012" ""
.SH NAME
main.conf \- ConnMan configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/connman/main.conf
.br
or
.br
\fI<SYSCONFDIR>\fP/connman/main.conf
.br
where <SYSCONFDIR> depends on your distribution or build.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.I main.conf
is a configuration file for ConnMan. The configuration file is
optional but it can be used to set up various aspects of ConnMan's
behavior. The location of the file may be changed through use of
the "\-\-config=" argument for \fBconnman\fP (8).
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.P
The configuration file format is key file format.
It consists of sections (groups) of key-value pairs.
Lines beginning with a '#' and blank lines are considered comments.
Sections are started by a header line containing the section enclosed
in '[' and ']', and ended implicitly by the start of the next section
or the end of the file. Each key-value pair must be contained in a section.
.P
Description of sections and available keys follows:
.SS [General]
This section is the only mandatory section of the configuration file.
.TP
.B InputRequestTimeout=\fPsecs\fP
Set input request timeout. Default is 120 seconds
The request for inputs like passphrase will timeout
after certain amount of time. Use this setting to
increase the value in case of different user
interface designs.
.TP
.B BrowserLaunchTimeout=\fPsecs\fP
Set browser launch timeout. Default is 300 seconds
The request for launching a browser for portal pages
will timeout after certain amount of time. Use this
setting to increase the value in case of different
user interface designs.
.TP
.B BackgroundScanning=\fPtrue|false\fP
Enable background scanning. Default is true.
Background scanning will start every 5 minutes unless
the scan list is empty. In that case, a simple backoff
mechanism starting from 10s up to 5 minutes will run.
.TP
.B FallbackTimeservers=\fPserver1,server2,...\fP
List of Fallback timeservers separated by ",".
These timeservers are used for NTP sync when there are
no timeserver set by the user or by the service.
These can contain mixed combination of fully qualified
domain names, IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
.TP
.B FallbackNameservers=\fPserver1,server2,...\fP
List of fallback nameservers separated by "," appended
to the list of nameservers given by the service. The
nameserver entries must be in numeric format, host
names are ignored.
.TP
.B DefaultAutoConnectTechnologies=\fPtechnology1,technology2,...\fP
List of technologies that are marked autoconnectable
by default, separated by commas ",". The default value
for this entry when empty is ethernet,wifi,cellular.
Services that are automatically connected must have been
set up and saved to storage beforehand.
.TP
.B PreferredTechnologies=\fPtechnology1,technology2,...\fP
List of preferred technologies from the most preferred
one to the least preferred one separated by commas ",".
Services of the listed technology type will be tried one
by one in the order given, until one of them gets connected
with state 'online' or they are all tried. A service of a
preferred technology type in state 'ready' will get the
default route when compared to a non-preferred type; a
service of a preferred technology type in state 'online'
will get the default route when compared to either a
non-preferred type or a preferred type in state 'ready'.
.TP
.B NetworkInterfaceBlacklist=\fPinterface1,interface2,...\fP
List of blacklisted network interfaces separated by ",".
Found interfaces will be compared to the list and will
not be handled by connman, if their first characters
match any of the list entries. Default value is
vmnet,vboxnet,virbr.
.TP
.B AllowHostnameUpdates=\fPtrue|false\fP
Allow connman to change the system hostname. This can
happen for example if we receive DHCP hostname option.
Default value is true.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR Connman (8)
