.TH connmanctl 1 "2015-10-15" ""
.SH
NAME
connmanctl \- Connman CLI
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.BR connmanctl \ [\|\c
.BI state\fR\ |
.BI technologies\fR\ |
.BI enable \ technology\fR|offline\ |
.BI disable \ technology\fR|offline\ |
.BI tether \ technology\ \fRon|off\ |
.BI tether\fR\ wifi\ on|off\  ssid\ passphrase\fR\ |
.BR services \ [\fIservice\fR]\ |
.BI peers \ peer\fR\ |
.BI scan \ technology\fR\ |
.RI \fBconnect \ service | peer \ |
.RI \fBdisconnect \ service | peer \ |
.B config \ \fIservice\ option\ arg\fR...\ |
.BR vpnconnections \ [\fIconnection\fR]\ |
.BI help \fR\|]
.PP
.SH
DESCRIPTION
Connmanctl is a Connman command line interface which can be run in two modes:
a plain synchronous command input, and an asynchronous interactive shell.
To run a specific command the user may enter
.RI \fBconnmanctl\  command\  [ options ] \fR
or just \fBconnmanctl\fR, in the latter case an interactive shell will start.
.PP
Connmanctl can handle most network connections. It can be used to
enable/disable any technology that exists on the system, display a list of
services available, connect/disconnect networks, show properties of the system,
the technologies, and any individual service, and configure all of the
properties. It is also able to monitor changes in the properties of the
services, technologies, and the system.
.PP
In the interactive shell, all of the same commands can be used. It
provides quicker usage when needing to use connmanctl more extensively. In
addition, connecting to protected wireless access points for the first time
requires interactive shell.
.SH
COMMANDS AND OPTIONS
.TP
.B help
Shows the abbreviated help menu in the terminal.
.PP
.TP
.B state
Shows the system properties. Includes ths online state of the
system, offline mode, and session mode.
.PP
.TP
.B technologies
Shows a list of all technology types existing on the system and
their properties. See the properties section of the Technology
API for explanations of each property.
.PP
.TP
.BI enable \ technology
Enables the given technology type (e.g. ethernet, wifi, 3g, etc.)
Turns power on to the technology, but doesn't connect unless
there is a service with autoconnect set to True.
.PP
.TP
.BI disable \ technology
Disables the given technology type. Turns power off to the
technology and disconnects if it is already connected.
.PP
.TP
.B enable offline
Enables offline mode. Disconnects and powers down all
technologies system-wide, however each technology can be powered
back on individually.
.PP
.TP
.B disable offline
Disables offline mode. Technologies are powered back on according
to their individual policies.
.PP
.TP
.BI tether \ technology \ on \ \fR|\  off
Enable or disable tethering on \fItechnology\fR. Ethernet cannot be tethered
by default since tethering it usually breaks local networks. See
.BR connman.conf (5)
for enabling.
.PP
.TP
.BR tether\ wifi\ on \ |\  off \ \fIssid\ passphrase
Enable or disable wireless tethering, as well set the SSID and passphrase.
.PP
.TP
.B services
Shows a list of all available services. This includes the
nearby wifi networks, the wired ethernet connections, bluetooth devices, etc.
An asterisk in front of the service indicates that the service
has been connected before.
.PP
.TP
.BI services \ service
Shows a list of all properties for that service.
Only the service path (e.g. wifi_6834534139723_managed_none)
is accepted as a parameter.
.PP
.TP
.BI scan \ technology
Scans for new services on the given technology.
.PP
.TP
.BI connect \ service
Connects to the given service. Some services need a so-called
\fBprovisioning file\fR in order to connect to them, see
\fBconnman-service.config\fR(5).
.PP
.TP
.BI disconnect \ service
Disconnects from the given service.
.PP
.TP
.BI move-before \ service\ target-service
Prefer connecting to \fIservice\fR over \fItarget-service\fR.
.PP
.TP
.BI move-after \ service\ target-service
Prefer connecting to \fItarget-service\fR over \fIservice\fR.
.PP
.TP
.BI config \ service\ option\ arg\fR...
Configures a writable property of the given service to the value(s) entered
after \fIoption\fR. See the \fBConfig Options\fR subsection for details.
.PP
.TP
.BI monitor \ target
Listens for and displays DBus signals sent by Connman. If a currently monitored
property changes, the changes will be shown. If no \fItarget\fR is specified,
all changes will be shown. See the \fBMonitor Options\fR subsection for a
summary of parameters.
.PP
.TP
.BI vpnconnections
Shows a list of all available vpn connections.
.PP
.TP
.BI vpnconnections \ connection
Shows the current properties of \fIconnection\fR.
.PP
.SS
Commands only available in interactive mode:
.PP
.TP
.BR agent\ on \ |\  off
Enable or disable the wireless agent, used for entering wireless
network passphrases. See the \fBEXAMPLE\fR section of this man page for
an example of connecting to a wireless access point.
.PP
.TP
.BR vpnagent\ on \ |\  off
Enable or disable the vpn agent, used for entering vpn credentials.
.SS
Config Options:
.PP
.TP
.BR \fBautoconnect\ on \ |\  off
Sets the autoconnect property of the service.
.PP
.TP
.BR ipv4\ off \ |\  dhcp \ |\  manual\ \fIaddress\ netmask\ gateway
Configures the IPv4 settings for the service. The argument
\fBoff\fR means that IPv4 won't be used, \fBdhcp\fR means that
dhcp will be used to get the settings and \fBmanual\fR means
that the given arguments will be used as IPv4 settings.
.IR address ,\  netmask " and " gateway
must be valid IPv4 addresses. See the \fBEXAMPLE\fR section
of this man page for details.
.PP
.TP
.BR ipv6\ off \ |\  auto \ |\  manual\ \fIaddress\ prefixlength\ gateway
Configures the IPv6 settings for the service. The argument
\fBoff\fR means that IPv6 won't be used, \fBauto\fR means that
settings will be asked from the network and \fBmanual\fR means
that the given arguments will be used as IPv6 settings.
.IR address " and " gateway
must be valid IPv4 addresses. \fIprefixlength\fR is the length
of the prefix in bits. See the \fBEXAMPLE\fR section of this man
page for details.
.PP
.TP
.BI nameservers\  dns\fR\ [...]
Set the list of nameservers, separated by spaces.
.PP
.TP
.BI timeservers\  server\fR\ [...]
Set the list of timeservers, separated by spaces.
.PP
.TP
.BI domains\  domain\fR\ [...]
Set the list of search domains, separated by spaces.
.PP
.TP
.BR proxy\ direct \ |\  auto\fI\ URL \ |\  manual\ \fIserver [...]\ [--excludes\  \fIserver [...]]
Configures the proxy settings for the service. \fBdirect\fR means that no
proxy will be used. If using \fBauto\fR without a parameter, the network
will be asked for the proxy settings. Otherwise, use \fIURL\fR as an
proxy autoconfiguration URL. When set to \fBmanual\fR, the first list of servers
is used as proxy servers, and the traffic to the second list of servers are
excluded from the proxy. The list of excluded servers is optional. See the
\fBEXAMPLE\fR section of this man page for details.
.PP
.SS
Monitor Options:
.PP
.TP
.BR services\  [ off ]
Listens for changes to services, for example a service getting an IP address.
.PP
.TP
.BR tech\  [ off ]
Listens for changes to technologies, for example a technology getting enabled.
.PP
.TP
.BR manager\  [ off ]
Listens for the changes to global properties, available technologies,
services, and peers.
.PP
.TP
.BR vpnmanager\  [ off ]
Listens for added or removed vpn connections.
.PP
.TP
.BR vpnconnection\  [ off ]
Listens for the changes to vpn connections, for example connecting to a VPN.
.PP
.SH
EXAMPLE
Listing available technologies:
.PP
      $ connmanctl technologies
.PP
Listing available services:
.PP
      $ connmanctl services
.PP
Scanning for wireless networks:
.PP
      $ connmanctl scan wifi
.PP
Using the interactive mode to access a wireless access point:
.PP
      $ connmanctl
      connmanctl> agent on
      Agent registered
      connmanctl> connect wifi_100ba9d170fc_666f6f626172_managed_psk
      Agent RequestInput wifi_100ba9d170fc_666f6f626172_managed_psk
        Passphrase = [ Type=psk, Requirement=mandatory ]
      Passphrase? password
      Connected wifi_100ba9d170fc_666f6f626172_managed_psk
      connmanctl>
.PP
Configuring a static IP from the command line:
.PP
      $ connmanctl config wifi_100ba9d170fc_666f6f626172_managed_psk ipv4 manual 192.168.1.101 255.255.255.0 192.168.1.1
.PP
Changing the IP back to dhcp:
.PP
      $ connmanctl config wifi_100ba9d170fc_666f6f626172_managed_psk ipv4 dhcp
.PP
Setting a proxy server:
.PP
      $ connmanctl config wifi_100ba9d170fc_666f6f626172_managed_psk proxy manual proxy.example.com
.PP
Setting multiple proxy servers:
.PP
      $ connmanctl config wifi_100ba9d170fc_666f6f626172_managed_psk proxy manual proxy.example.com http://httpproxy.example.com --excludes internal.example.com
.PP
Tethering a wireless connection (ssid "SSID", passphrase "password"):
.PP
      $ connmanctl tether wifi on SSID password
.PP
.SH
SEE ALSO
.BR connman.conf (5), \ connman-service.config (5), \c
.BR \ connman-vpn-provider.config (5), \ connman (8), \ connman-vpn (8)
